lifestyles.xml (and custom_lifestyles.xml, see [Custom Data Files]) contains all of the information on Lifestyles.

## Structure

```xml
<chummer>
  <categories>
    <category>
  </categories>
  <lifestyles>
    <lifestyle />
  </lifestyles>
  <comforts>
    <comfort />
  </comforts>
  <neighborhoods>
    <neighborhood />
  </neighborhoods>
  <securities>
    <security />
  </securities>
  <qualities>
    <quality />
  </qualities>
</chummer>
```
[categories](#categories) describe the different Categories of Lifestyle Quality.

[lifestyle](#lifestyle) nodes describe individual Lifestyles.

[comfort, neighborhood, and security](#comfort-entertainment-necessity-neighborhood-and-security) nodes describe Advanced Lifestyle options.

[quality](#quality) nodes describe Lifestyle Qualities.

## lifestyle

```xml
<lifestyle>
   <id />
   <name />
   <cost />
   <dice />
   <freegrids>
    <freegrid />
   </freegrids>
   <lp />
   <costforarea />
   <costforcomforts />
   <costforsecurity />
   <allowbonuslp />
   <multiplier />
   <increment />
   <source />
   <page />
</lifestyle>
```

**id** (required): the internal unique identifier of the Lifestyle. All ID fields are standard GUIDs, which can be generated by [external websites](https://www.guidgenerator.com) or plugins.

**name** (required): the name of the Lifestyle.

**cost** (required): the amount in Nuyen that the Lifestyle costs the character each month.

**dice** (required): the number D6 a starting character rolls for this Lifestyle when beginning play.

**multiplier** (required): after rolling their starting Nuyen D6, the value is multiplied by this amount to determine their starting Nuyen.

**source** (required): the code for the Sourcebook that this entry comes from. See [books-xml|books.xml].

**page** (required): the page number this item can be found on in the Sourcebook.

## comfort, entertainment, necessity, neighborhood, and security Nodes
```xml
<comfort> or <entertainment> or <necessity> or <neighborhood> or <security>
  <name />
  <minimum/>
  <limit />
</comfort> or </entertainment> or </necessity> or </neighborhood> or </security>
```

**name** (required): the name of the Advanced Lifestyle option.

**minimum** (required): the base value of the Lifestyle option. 

**limit** (required): the total maximum value of the Lifestyle option.

## quality
```xml
<quality>
  <id />
  <name />
  <category />
  <lp />
  <multiplier />
  <allowed />
  <bonus />
  <forbidden />
  <required />
  <source />
  <page />
</quality>
```

**id** (required): the internal unique identifier of the Lifestyle Quality. All ID fields are standard GUIDs, which can be generated by [external websites](https://www.guidgenerator.com) or plugins.

**name** (required): the name of the Advanced Lifestyle Quality.

**category** (required): type Category of the Advanced Lifestyle Quality. 

**lp** (required): the number of Lifestyle Points the Quality costs.

**allowed** (optional): the list of Lifestyle types this Quality can be added to without cost. This is a comma-separate list. 

**cost** (optional): the additional cost to take this Quality if the selected lifestyle is not in the Allowed list. 

**bonus** (optional): connects to the Improvement Manager system to provide a bonus to the character directly.

**required** (optional): connects to the Selection system to ensure that the character or lifestyle is allowed to take the quality. 

**forbidden** (optional): connects to the Selection system to ensure that the character or lifestyle is allowed to take the quality. 

**multiplier** (optional): The quality affects the cost of the parent lifestyle by this amount. Expected to be a percentage. 

**source** (required): the code for the Sourcebook that this entry comes from. See [books-xml|books.xml].

**page** (required): the page number this item can be found on in the Sourcebook.