mentors.xml (and custom_mentors.xml, see [Custom Data Files](Custom%20Data%20Files.ashx "Custom Data Files")) contains all of the information on creating Mentor Spirits, for use with the Mentor Spirit quality.

# Structure
    <chummer>
       <mentors>
          <mentor />
       </mentors>
    </chummer>
[**mentor**](#mentor "mentor") nodes describe individual Mentor Spirits.

## <a id="mentor"></a>mentor Node
    <mentor>
       <id />
       <name />
       <advantage />
       <disadvantage />
       <bonus />
       <choices />
       <source />
       <page />
    </mentor>
**id** (required): the internal name of the Mentor Spirit. All ID fields are standard GUIDs, which can be generated by [external websites](www.guidgenerator.com) or plugins.

**name** (required): the name of the Mentor Spirit.

**bonus** (optional): a bonus node that describes any bonuses this entry grants. See [Improvement Manager](Improvement-System.ashx "Improvement Manager") for more information. Note that this bonus is granted in addition to any choice node bonuses. 

**choices** (required): describes a list of choices for options. Generally used for mystic adepts when choosing the Magician or Adept path of a mentor spirit. 

**source** (required): the code for the Sourcebook that this entry comes from. See [books.xml](books-xml.ashx "books.xml").

**page** (required): the page number this item can be found on in the Sourcebook.

## <a id="choice"></a>choice Node
    <choice>
       <name />
       <bonus />
    </required>
**name** (required): Name of the choice. This also acts as the description of the choice, listing any powers or benefits the character receives. 

**bonus** (optional): a bonus node that describes any bonuses this entry grants. See [Improvement Manager](Improvement-System.ashx "Improvement Manager") for more information. 
Attributes
**set** (optional): Chummer is written to allow up to two different sets of bonus choices. Set 1 is the default value. To provide for a second set, use set="2".