# metatypes.xml, critters.xml, and vessels.xml

metatypes.xml (and custom_metatypes.xml, see [Custom Data Files](Custom-Data-Files)) contains all of the information for Metatypes and Metavariants. critters.xml (and custom_critters.xml) contains all of the information for Critters. Despite the file name difference, the structure of the two files are identical. vessels.xml (and custom_vessels.xml) contains all of the information for Inanimate Vessels. It structure is identical to that of metatypes.xml with a few exceptions as described below.

# Structure
    <chummer>
       <categories>
          <category />
       </categories>
       <metatypes>
          <metatype />
       </metatypes>
    </chummer>
[**Categories**](#categories "Categories Node") describes the different Categories of Metatypes.

[**Metatype**](#metatype "Metatype Node") nodes describe the individual Metatypes.

## <a id="categories"></a>Categories Node
    <categories>
       <category />
    </categories>
**category** (required): the name of the Metatype Category. This list populates the Category list found in the Select Metatype window. Categories are used to group Metatypes into groups such as _Metahuman_, _Shapeshifter_, and _Paranormal_.

## <a id="metatype"></a>Metatype Node
    <metatype>
       <id />
       <name />
       <category />
       <forcecreature />
       <karma />
       <bodmin />
       <bodmax />
       <bodaug />
       <agimin />
       <agimax />
       <agiaug />
       <reamin />
       <reamax />
       <reaaug />
       <strmin />
       <strmax />
       <straug />
       <chamin />
       <chamax />
       <chaaug />
       <intmin />
       <intmax />
       <intaug />
       <logmin />
       <logmax />
       <logaug />
       <wilmin />
       <wilmax />
       <wilaug />
       <inimin />
       <inimax />
       <iniaug />
       <edgmin />
       <edgmax />
       <edgaug />
       <magmin />
       <magmax />
       <magaug />
       <resmin />
       <resmax />
       <resaug />
       <depmin />
       <depmax />
       <depaug />
       <essmin />
       <essmax />
       <essaug />
       <walk />
       <run />
       <sprint />
       <qualityrestriction />
       <qualities />
       <bonus />
       <powers />
       <optionalpowers />
       <skills />
       <complexforms />
       <optionalcomplexforms />
       <gears />
       <source />
       <page />
       <metavariants />
    </grade>
**id** (required): the internal name of the metatype. All ID fields are standard GUIDs, which can be generated by [external websites](https://www.guidgenerator.com) or plugins.

**name** (required): the name of the Metatype.

**category** (required): the Category that this Metatype belongs to. This should match one of the Categories defined in the [**Categories** Node](#categories "Categories Node").

**forcecreature** (optional): when present, indicates that the Metatype uses Force as an Attribute and will require an initial value to be selected in the Select Metatype window.

**karma** (required): the Karma Cost for the Metatype in Point Buy build methods.

**bodmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum BOD value.

**bodmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum BOD value.

**bodaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum BOD value.

**agimin** (required): the Metatype's minimum AGI value.

**agimax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum AGI value.

**agiaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum AGI value.

**reamin** (required): the Metatype's minimum REA value.

**reamax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum REA value.

**reaaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum REA value.

**strmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum STR value.

**strmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum STR value.

**straug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum STR value.

**chamin** (required): the Metatype's minimum CHA value.

**chamax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum CHA value.

**chaaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum CHA value.

**intmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum INT value.

**intmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum INT value.

**intaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum INT value.

**logmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum LOG value.

**logmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum LOG value.

**logaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum LOG value.

**wilmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum WIL value.

**wilmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum WIL value.

**wilaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum WIL value.

**inimin** (required): the Metatype's minimum INI value.

**inimax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum INI value.

**iniaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum INI value.

**edgmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum EDG value.

**edgmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum EDG value.

**edgaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum EDG value.

**magmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum MAG value.

**magmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum MAG value.

**magaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum MAG value.

**resmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum RES value.

**resmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum RES value.

**resaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum RES value.

**depmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum DEP value.

**depmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum DEP value.

**depaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum DEP value.

**essmin** (required): the Metatype's minimum ESS value.

**essmax** (required): the Metatype's natural maximum ESS value.

**essaug** (required): the Metatype's augmented maximum ESS value.

**walk** (required): the Walk multipliers for the Metatype. Must be entered as `x/y/z` where `x` is their walking ground multiplier, `y` is their walking swim multiplier, and `z` is their walking flight multiplier.

**run** (required): the Run multipliers for the Metatype. Must be entered as `x/y/z` where `x` is their running ground multiplier, `y` is their running swim multiplier, and `z` is their running flight multiplier.

**sprint** (required): the Sprint values for the Metatype. Must be entered as `x/y/z` where `x` is the additional metres gained per hit on a Sprint test for ground, while `y` and `z` are for Swimming and Flight, respectively.

**qualityrestriction** (optional): restricts the Metatype to selecting only the Qualities listed. See [**Qualities and Qualityrestriction** Node](#qualities "Qualities and Qualityrestriction Node") for more information. Not supported by vessels.xml.

**qualities** (optional): the list of Qualities that this Metatype receives for free. See [**Qualities and Qualityrestriction** Node](#qualities "Qualities and Qualityrestriction Node") for more information.

**bonus** (optional): a bonus node that describes any bonuses this Metatype grants. See [Improvement Manager](Improvement-Manager) for more information.

**powers** (optional): the list of Critter Powers that this Metatype receives for free. See [**Powers and Optionalpowers** Node](#powers "Powers and Optionalpowers Node") for more information.

**optionalpowers** (optional): the list of additional Critter Powers that this Metatype can choose to gain. See [**Powers and Optionalpowers** Node](#powers "Powers and Optionalpowers Node") for more information. Not supported by vessels.xml.

**skills** (optional): the list of Active Skills, Skill Groups, and Knowledge Skills that the Metatype automatically has Ratings in. See [**Skills** Node](#skills "Skills Node") for more information. Not supported by vessels.xml.

**complexforms** (optional): the list of Complex Forms that this Metatype receives for free. See [**Complexforms and Optionalcomplexforms** Node](#complexforms "Complexforms and Optionalcomplexforms Node") for more information. Not supported by vessels.xml.

**optionalcomplexforms** (optional): the list of additional Complex Forms that this Metatype can choose to gain. See [**Complexforms and Optionalcomplexforms** Node](#complexforms "Complexforms and Optionalcomplexforms Node") for more information. Not supported by vessels.xml.

**gears** (optional): the list of Gear that this Metatype receives for free. See [**Gears** Node](#gears "Gears Node") for more information. Not supported by vessels.xml.

**source** (required): the code for the Sourcebook that this entry comes from. See [books.xml](Books "books.xml").

**page** (required): the page number this item can be found on in the Sourcebook.

**metavariants** (optional): Metavariants that stem from this Metatype. See [**Metavariant** Node](#metavariant "Metavariant Node") for more information. Not supported by vessels.xml.

## <a id="metavariant"></a>Metavariant Node
    <metavariants>
       <metavariant>
          <id />
          <name />
          <karma />
          <powers />
          <qualities />
          <bonus />
          <source />
          <page />
       </metavariant>
    </metavariants>
**id** (required): the internal name of the metavariant. All ID fields are standard GUIDs, which can be generated by [external websites](https://www.guidgenerator.com) or plugins.

**name** (required): the name of the Metavariant.

**karma** (required): the additional Build Point cost for selecting this Metavariant.

**powers** (optional): the list of Critter Powers that this Metavariant receives for free. See [**Powers and Optionalpowers** Node](#powers "Powers and Optionalpowers Node") for more information.

**qualities** (optional): the list of Qualities that this Metavariant receives for free. See [**Qualities and Qualityrestriction** Node](#qualities "Qualities and Qualityrestriction Node") for more information.

**bonus** (optional): a bonus node that describes any bonuses this Metavariant grants. These bonuses replace those granted by the Metatype. See [Improvement Manager](Improvement Manager) for more information.

**source** (required): the code for the Sourcebook that this entry comes from. See [Books](Books).

**page** (required): the page number this item can be found on in the Sourcebook.

## <a id="qualities"></a>Qualities and Qualityrestriction Node
    <qualities> or <qualityrestriction>
       <positive />
       <negative />
    </qualities> or </qualityrestriction>
**positive** (optional): the list of Positive Qualities this Metavariant receives. See [**Positive and Negative** Node](#qualitiesspecific "Positive and Negative Node") for more information.

**negative** (optional): the list of Negative Qualities this Metavariant receives. See [**Positive and Negative** Node](#qualitiesspecific "Positive and Negative Node") for more information.

## <a id="qualitiesspecific"></a>Positive and Negative Node
    <positive> or <negative>
       <quality />
    </positive> or </negative>
**quality** (required): the name of a Quality that this Metavariant receives. This node may appear multiple times to build a list of Qualities the Metavariant receives. This node may include the `select` attribute to specify a value for a Quality that typically requires the user to pick one. For example, `<quality select="Sunlight">Allergy (Common, Mild)</quality>` would automatically select Sunlight as the chosen Allergy, and `<quality select="STR">Metagenetic Improvement</quality>` would automatically select the STR as the chosen Attribute for Metagenetic Improvement. See [qualities.xml](Quality-Levels "qualities.xml") for more information.

## <a id="powers"></a>Powers and Optionalpowers Node
    <powers> or <optionalpowers>
       <power />
    </powers> or </optionalpowers>
**power** (required): the name of a Critter Power that the Metatype receives for free or may choose as an optional Critter Power. May contain the _select_ attribute which forces a particular value to be selected for the Critter Power. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets a Rating for the Critter Powers. Optional Powers may also contain the _cost_ attribute which specifies the number of Power Points the Critter must spend to purchase the Critter Power which typically applies to Free Spirits.

## <a id="skills"></a>Skills Node
    <skills>
       <skill />
       <group />
       <knowledge />
    </skills>
**skill** (optional): the name of an Active Skill that the Metatype will automatically have Ratings in. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets the Rating for the Active Skill. May contain the _spec_ attribute which sets the Active Skill's Specialization. May contain the _select_ attribute to set an Exotic Active Skill's focus.

**group** (optional): the name of a Skill Group that the Metatype will automatically have Ratings in. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets the Rating for the Skill Group.

**knowledge** (optional): the name of a Knowledge Skill that the Metatype will be given. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets the Rating for the Knowledge Skill. May contain the _category_ attribute which sets the Category the Knowledge Skill, such as _Academic_ or _Professional_.

## <a id="complexforms"></a>Complexforms and Optionalcomplexforms Node

**complexform** (required): the name of a Complex Form that the Metatype receives for free or may choose as an optional Complex Form. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets a Rating for the Complex Form.
    <complexforms> or <optionalcomplexforms>
       <complexform />
    </complexforms> or </optionalcomplexforms>
## <a id="gears"></a>Gears Node
    <gears>
       <gear />
    </gears>
**gear** (required): the name of a piece of Gear that the Metatype receives for free. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets a Rating for the Gear.