traditions.xml (and custom_traditions.xml, see [Custom Data Files](Custom Data Files))) contains all of the information on Magic Traditions. streams.xml (and custom_streams.xml) contains all of the information for Technomancer Streams. Despite the file name difference, the structure of the two files are identical.

## Structure
    <chummer>
       <traditions>
          <tradition />
       </traditions>
    </chummer>

[**tradition**](#tradition "tradition") nodes describe individual Tradition/Stream.

## <a id="tradition"></a>tradition Node

    <tradition>
       <id />
       <name />
       <drain />
       <spirits />
       <source />
       <page />
    </tradition>

**id** (required): the internal name of the book. All ID fields are standard GUIDs, which can be generated by [external websites](https://www.guidgenerator.com) or plugins.

**name** (required): the name of the Tradition/Stream.

**drain** (required): the Attributes that a character uses to resist Drain/Fading with this Tradition/Stream.

**spirits** (required): the list of Spirits/Sprites that a character following this Tradition/Stream can summon. See [**spirits** Node](#spirits "spirits Node") for more information.

**source** (required): the code for the Sourcebook that this entry comes from. See books.xml.

**page** (required): the page number this item can be found on in the Sourcebook.

## <a id="spirits"></a>spirits Node

    <spirits>
       <spirit />
    </spirits>

**spirit** (required): the name of a Spirit/Sprite that can be summoned by followers of the Tradition/Stream. This node may appear multiple times.

## <a id="spirit"></a>spirit Node

    <spirit>
       <id></id>
       <name></name>
       <bod></bod>
       <agi></agi>
       <rea></rea>
       <str></str>
       <cha></cha>
       <int></int>
       <log></log>
       <wil></wil>
       <ini></ini>
       <skills></skills>
       <powers></powers>
       <optionalpowers></optionalpowers>
       <weaknesses></weaknesses>
       <source></source>
       <page></page>
    </spirit>

**id** (required): the internal name of the book. All ID fields are standard GUIDs, which can be generated by [external websites](https://www.guidgenerator.com) or plugins.

**name** (required): the name of the Spirit.

**bod** (required): the BOD value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**agi** (required): the AGI value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**rea** (required): the REA value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**str** (required): the STR value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**cha** (required): the CHA value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**int** (required): the INT value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**log** (required): the LOG value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**wil** (required): the WIL value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as F+2.

**ini** (required): the INI value of the Spirit. If the value is based on the Force of the spirit, use formulas such as (F*2)+4.

**skills** (optional): the list of Active Skills, Skill Groups, and Knowledge Skills that the Spirit automatically has Ratings in. See [**skills** Node](#skills "skills Node") for more information.

**powers** (optional): the list of Critter Powers that this Spirit receives for free. See [**powers and optionalpowers** Nodes](#powers "powers and optionalpowers Nodes") for more information.

**optionalpowers** (optional): the list of additional Critter Powers that this Spirit can choose to gain. See [**powers and optionalpowers** Nodes](#powers "powers and optionalpowers Nodes") for more information.

**weaknesses** (optional): the list of additional Critter Weaknesses that this Spirit receives automatically. See [**weaknesses** Node](#weaknesses "weaknesses Nodes") for more information.

**source** (required): the code for the Sourcebook that this entry comes from. See [books.xml](books-xml.ashx "books.xml").

**page** (required): the page number this item can be found on in the Sourcebook.

## <a id="skills"></a>skills Node
    <skills>
       <skill />
       <group />
       <knowledge />
    </skills>
**skill** (optional): the name of an Active Skill that the Metatype will automatically have Ratings in. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets the Rating for the Active Skill. May contain the _spec_ attribute which sets the Active Skill's Specialization. May contain the _select_ attribute to set an Exotic Active Skill's focus. May contain the _attr_ attribute to select the Active Skill's Attribute. If not present, this will default to Force. 

**group** (optional): the name of a Skill Group that the Metatype will automatically have Ratings in. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets the Rating for the Skill Group.

**knowledge** (optional): the name of a Knowledge Skill that the Metatype will be given. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets the Rating for the Knowledge Skill. May contain the _category_ attribute which sets the Category the Knowledge Skill, such as _Academic_ or _Professional_.

## <a id="powers"></a>powers and optionalpowers Nodes
    <powers> or <optionalpowers>
       <power />
    </powers> or </optionalpowers>
**power** (required): the name of a Critter Power that the Metatype receives for free or may choose as an optional Critter Power. May contain the _select_ attribute which forces a particular value to be selected for the Critter Power. May contain the _rating_ attribute which sets a Rating for the Critter Powers. Optional Powers may also contain the _cost_ attribute which specifies the number of Power Points the Critter must spend to purchase the Critter Power which typically applies to Free Spirits.

## <a id="weaknesses"></a>weaknesses Node
    <weaknesses>
       <weakness />
    </weaknesses>
**weakness** (required): the name of a Critter Weakness that the Spirit receives automatically. May contain the _select_ attribute which forces a particular value to be selected for the Critter Weakness. 